docs(adr): New subspace treasury account structure (#1062)
desmos-labs/desmos: docs/architecture/adr-018-improve-subspace-treasury-account.md

# ADR 018: Improve subspace treasury account

## Changelog
- Jan 4th, 2023: First draft;

## Status

PROPOSED

## Abstract

> This ADR introduces a new treasury account structure, which guarantees the account fully controlled by the subspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ADR introduces a new treasury account structure, which guarantees the account is fully controlled by the subspace admins.
```

## Context

Currently, each subspace's treasury is a third-party accounts assigned by the subspace's manager(s). The subspace itself has no control over its treasury, which can lead to the following issues:

> 1. subspace managers can assign a wealthy account not controlled by them as their treasury in order to scam users.;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. subspace managers can assign a wealthy account not controlled by them as their treasury in order to scam users;
```

## Decision

To address the issues mentioned above, we propose implementing a new treasury account structure. The new treasury address will be generated using `authtypes.NewModuleAddress` from its subspace id when the subspace is created, and will not be able to be edited thereafter. This will ensure that the subspace's treasury is fully controlled by the subspace itself, rather than being managed by external third-party accounts.

Additionally, we will introduce a new permission and method to allow authorized users to spend funds from the treasury. 

## `Msg` Service

To prevent the treasury account from being edited later, we will remove the `treasury` field from the current `MsgCreateSubspace` and `MsgEditSubspace` messages.

Additionally, we will implement a new operation to allow authorized users to spend funds from the treasury account as follows:

```protobuf
service Msg {
    // SpendTreasury allows users who have the permission to transfer tokens out of the treasury
    rpc SpendTreasury(MsgSpendTreasury) returns (MsgSpendTreasuryResponse);

> }

Author: I think the treasury should be only used as a place to store funds so having a method `SpendTreasury` is enough.

Reviewer: I honestly don't believe this is enought. What we could do, instead, is levereging the `x/authz` module allowing subspace managers to create authorizations on behalf of this account. This would allow a lot of other use cases to be implemented. 

**Example** 
Suppose that a manager wants to use the treasury account to stake the tokens that are sent to it, in order to prove the users that the subspace owners are not going to dump on them. In this case, the subspace owner (or anyone with the permissions) could create a `StakeAuthorization` on behalf of the treasury, with the grantee being the user that wants to stake the tokens.   

This could be done by implementing one method that is `GrantAuthorization` to grant an authorization on behalf of the treasury. It would also cover the spending of the funds thanks to the `SpendAuthorization`

Author: You are right! Considering that treasury account might have cw20 tokens in the future, we should allow operators to execute smart contract, too.

Author: @RiccardoM Updated

# ADR 018: Improve subspace treasury account

## Changelog
- Jan 4th, 2023: First draft;
- Jan 9th, 2023: First review;

## Status

> PROPOSED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACCEPTED Not Implemented
```

## Decision

To address the issues mentioned above, we propose implementing a new treasury account structure. The new treasury address will be generated using `authtypes.NewModuleAddress` from its subspace id when the subspace is created, and will not be able to be edited thereafter. This will ensure that the subspace's treasury is fully controlled by the subspace itself, rather than being managed by external third-party accounts.

Additionally, we will introduce a new permission and method that will grant users to perform operations on the treasury.

## `Msg` Service

To prevent the treasury account from being edited later, we will remove the `treasury` field from the current `MsgCreateSubspace` and `MsgEditSubspace` messages.

Additionally, we will implement new methods to grant or revoke treasury authorization for users to perform operations on the treasury. These methods will be as follows:

```protobuf
service Msg {
    // GrantTreasuryAuthorization allows managers who have the permission to grant a treasury authorization to a user
    rpc GrantTreasuryAuthorization(MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization) returns (MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorizationResponse);

>     // GrantTreasuryAuthorization allows managers who have the permission to revoke a treasury authorization from a user
>     rpc RevokeTreasuryAuthorization(MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization) returns
>     (MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorizationResponse);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // RevokeTreasuryAuthorization allows managers who have the permission to revoke an existing treasury authorization
    rpc RevokeTreasuryAuthorization(MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization) returns
    (MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorizationResponse);
```

}

> // MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization grants an authorization of the treasury to a user
> message MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization {
>     // Id of the subspace where the granter grants a treasury authorization
>     uint64 subspace_id = 1;
>     // Address of the user granting a treasury authorization
>     string granter = 2;
>     // Address of the user who is being granted a treasury authorization
>     string grantee = 3;
>     // Grant represents the authorization to execute the provided methods
>     cosmos.authz.v1beta1.Grant grant = 4 [(gogoproto.nullable) = false];
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization grants an authorization on behalf of the treasury to a user
message MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization {
    // Id of the subspace where the authorization should be granted
    uint64 subspace_id = 1;
    // Address of the user granting a treasury authorization
    string granter = 2;
    // Address of the user who is being granted a treasury authorization
    string grantee = 3;
    // Grant represents the authorization to execute the provided methods
    cosmos.authz.v1beta1.Grant grant = 4 [(gogoproto.nullable) = false];
}
```

// MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorizationResponse defines the Msg/MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorization response type
message MsgGrantTreasuryAuthorizationResponse{}

> // MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization revokes an authorization of the treasury from a user
> message MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization {
>     // Id of the subspace where the granter revokes a treasury authorization
>     uint64 subspace_id = 1;
>     // Address of the user revoking a treasury authorization
>     string granter = 2;
>     // Address of the user who is being revoked a treasury authorization
>     string grantee = 3;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization revokes an existing treasury authorization from a user
message MsgRevokeTreasuryAuthorization {
    // Id of the subspace from which the authorization should be revoked
    uint64 subspace_id = 1;
    // Address of the user revoking the treasury authorization
    string granter = 2;
    // Address of the user who is being revoked the treasury authorization
    string grantee = 3;
}
```
